# GithubCompare
Sunday - 6th Sep : Read the problem statements and decided to go with Github compare problem statement. Decided to design the UI with the help of HTML, CSS and Bootstrap4 layouts. Monday - 7th Sep : Continued designing the web page with the help of Bootstrap4 and CSS. Used Google fonts api for setting the fonts and font-awesome website for using the Github logo. Took the custom built form layout from Bootstrap 4 and changed it to the problem's requirements. Set the method attribute of form tag to "POST" method and action to"/"(home route) i.e the contents of the form will be sent to the home route or where the server is. Tuesday - 8th sep : Installed Nodejs and Hyper as CLI. Installed the the depedencies via npm which are express, body-parser, Buffer, ejs, utf-8 and request. Created a file named app.js and setup the server and port number with the help of the expressjs module of node js. Web page will get displayed up whenever a GET req was made from any local browser. Https.get request would be made whenever a user entered any github username. with the help of github API the concerned person's github profile info would show up. With the help of ejs module the data retrieved from the API was sent to the new webpage by declaring new variables. The Data which got back form the API was of buffer type and for any human to read it, it needed to be converted to JSON format. So collected the buffer data in an array and passed the array to JSON.parse() method. After this with the help of the dot operator individual key value pair could be retrieved and sent to the other webpage for display with the help of the ejs module. To check if everthing's working fine nodemon app.js was called from the Hyper command line interface wherein the server was setup at port 3000 locally. Now the website was ready to be deployed on Heroku. Installed Heroku CLI by typing npm i -g heroku. Created a Procfile inside which I specified to tell Heroku how to launch our webapp. Inside the project folder in hyper CLI following commands were typed : $git init $git add . $git commit -m "first commit" $heroku create $git push heroku master Finally the website was deployed in heroku and was ready to use.
